# Eb
SRS learning software written in Java; should be able to support many different learning strategies eventually.

My 'regular' hobby is studying scientific talent, and due to that I have learned that to excel in anything, you need knowledge. And, as I have learned due to my research for an education research blog, the best way known to learn things (at least semantic knowledge/concepts) is using spaced repetition systems. Of course, those SRSes should ideally be extended by mnemonics, concept maps and other tricks, as each learning task is different, but a SRS is in many cases quite a good start.

Of course, there are already plenty of spaced repetition systems (see for example https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_flashcard_software), and I have tried quite a few of those, both offline (like Anki, Mnemosyne and Supermemo) and online (spaced repetition systems are also used by for example DuoLingo and memrise). For the number of features they offer and their sheer convenience of existing and having years of coding in them, there is little reason why people would use Eb.

For me however, there were some reasons. Some were not SRS-specific, like my desire to further develop my Java programming skills and to freely experiment with error-handling, documentation and debugging techniques (which is harder in my regular commercial work), and because I love making things that work (or may even, one day, be cool). However, one important reason was that I saw lots of discussion in for example the language learning community on whether one should (for example) learn single words, or do SRS with entire sentences. Also, new research into things like "perceptual learning", learning with delayed response, and so on made me want to experiment with SRSes which I could mould into doing 'non-standard' things. Hence I chose the name "Eb", after Hans Ebbinghaus, perhaps the earliest scientific researcher of memory. Eb is being made to experiment and learn about learning! (though of course I hope I will also find out some useful settings so Eb can also enable people to learn non-learning-related things).

The second reason is that, for all their advangtages, SRSes can be depressing teachers sometimes. The little clocks in the vesion of Duolingo I used kept ticking down to "need to repeat", making it seem as if I had to run to stay on the same place, and progress was entirely outside my reach. And returning to study after a vacation can be daunting: too many cards to review, and you have forgotten so much and the forgotten cards being buried so deep in the 'to review' stack that their review feels like a waste of time, as you have forgotten them again by the time you are finally able to re-review them. There should be a more convenient, more efficient way to restart after a period of idleness.

So basically, why I actually am using other SRSes in daily life, I hope to make Eb so good that I for one will love using it. Perhaps in future, others may too. Of course, Eb is still far from that stage (writing this in February 2016, I still have to implement a repetition mechanism, for example), but others who are interested in learning and my progress are definitely encouraged to send me their questions or suggestions!
